# Project Proposal

Oh, Shoot! is an accessible photoshoot metadata database for photographers. It is web app connected to a database management system containing objects that refer to a photoshoot, and the photographers are able to enter information on the shoot, including photo location, tags, contracts, invoice documents, and a preview photo.

The idea came about when I asked my Uncle Travis, a professional music photographer, and Aunt Robyn, a professional advertising photographer, if they had any sort of thoughts on a software that would make their lives easier. They brought up the horrors of sifting through a massive amount of data on many different hard drives. If they had some sort of indexing system they could use to search for info on photoshoots, it would help them a lot. At first thought, a database would also include all of the photos from the shoot. That is not plausible, due to the massive amount of data there is. My uncle, for example, has around 30 hard drives, each 6 TB. My database will only house the metadata the users provide on the photoshoots. This way, photographers can search through certain tags to find the photoshoot they are looking for, and the database will also have a space to enter the actual location of the data. In the case of my aunt and uncle, this would be the number and letter they assigned to the hard drives.

The front end will be done in React, and the database will likely be in PostgreSQL. To communicate between the two, I am planning on using GraphQL, but if necessary, I can delve into a custom API. So far, I do not see the need to do so; GraphQL is likely to have all that I will need. The server will either be hosted on AWS or from my custom build at home. I will eventually want to implement user authentication once I have the baseline database and basic front-end together. I have been familiar with SQL since my senior year of high school, and I worked with similar databases in Salesforce during my internship. I am also taking CMSI486, which is providing a helpful refresher to SQL and guiding me on the implementation of a database. I have practice with search algorithms from CMSI 282 and I did front-end development in CMSI 370.

Find my slide for the presentation [here](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1l7gBynupT7NOA19R0BfBKveWpgAO53bKK4JIdVSf3X8/edit?usp=sharing)
